# meta-xt-prod-v4h-demo

This repository contains yocto meta layers and product configuration
customized for the V4H Whitehawk Demo.
The demo is based on the xen-troops/meta-xt-prod-devel-rcar-gen4 repo.

This demo provides the following features:

 - Xen build compatible with V4H SoC
 - Thin Dom0 (no hardware present)
 - ADAS domain (DomD)
 - IVI Domain (DomU)
 - GPU passthrough in DomU
 - PCI passthrough in DomU
 - Camera in DomU

# How to build the demo

## Prerequirements

The buld was tested on the Ubuntu 20.04 LTS.
Recommended hardware on the build host: intel i7, RAM 32GB, SSD with 150GB of free space.

The demo is configured to be used with the [moulin build system](https://moulin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

Install moulin
```
pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/xen-troops/moulin
```

Install ninja
```
apt install ninja-build
```

Other packages may be required to be installed depending on the build host.

[TODO] describe full list of packages

## Building

You can clone this whole repository, or download it as an archive.
During the build few directories will be created and additional
dependencies will be fetched into them.
The build system will create build directory `yocto/` for yocto's
meta-layers. Also `.stamps/` directory and a few files will be
created by the ninja.

```
git clone https://partnergitlab.renesas.solutions/v4h-fusion-poc/meta-xt-prod-v4h-demo.git
cd meta-xt-prod-v4h-demo
```

Put DDK packages inside
```
cp <some_path>/GSX_KM_V4H_DDK23.3_v2.tar.bz2 .
cp <some_path>/r8a779g0_linux_gsx_binaries_gles_vz_DDK23.3_v2.tar.bz2 .
```

Run moulin to create build.ninja file
```
moulin prod-devel-rcar4.yaml --MACHINE whitehawk
```

Start the build to get the image file that contains three partitions for
domains with their rootfs.
```
ninja full.img
```

During the build the following artifacts will be created.
After `moulin prod-devel-rcar-s4.yaml`:
```
| build.ninja
```
After `ninja full.img`
```
| .stamps/
| .ninja_deps
| .ninja_log
| full.img
| yocto/
  | build_dom0/
  | build_domd/
  | build_domu/
  | <fetched meta layers>/
```

## Flashing

Get xen-troops tool for flashing `rcar_flash`
```
git clone git@github.com:xen-troops/rcar_flash.git
```

### Flash the IPLs
For this demo we have used IPL from XOS v3.29 (look like).

Turn off the board. Write down state of the SW1[5..8]. Set SW1[5..8] to `OFF`. Turn on the board.
Flash all the loaders
```
./rcar_flash.py flash -f -b v4h -s /dev/ttyUSB0 -p <path to Renesas loaders for Whitehawk> all
```

Flash the bl31 and u-boot from the product, and fastboot_demo_app_v4h.srec
```
./rcar_flash.py flash -f -b v4h -s /dev/ttyUSB0 -p <path to generated loaders> bl31 u-boot dummy_rtos:fastboot_demo_app_v4h.srec
```
Where `<path to generated loaders>` is something like
```
<root of your build>/yocto/build-domd/tmp/deploy/images/whitehawk
```
Flash the fastboot_demo_app_v4h.srec
```
./rcar_flash.py flash -f -b v4h -s /dev/ttyUSB0 -p <path to fastboot demo app> dummy_rtos:fastboot_demo_app_v4h.srec
```

Turn off the board. Set SW1[5..8] to state written down earlier. Turn on the board.

### Flash the image and add test tools
Boot the board using Renesas BSP by TFTP/NFS.

Put the full.img file, generated by the build, into the root of the rootfs used to boot the BSP.
```
# dd if=/full.img of=/dev/mmcblk0 bs=4M status=progress
# sync
```

If you want to put testing tools into the DomU, then put some folder,
assume its name is `tools/`, with the testing tools into the root of
the BSP's rootfs.
Here is how you can copy it to the DomU's /home/root/.
```
# mkdir ./x
# mount -t ext4 -o loop /dev/mmcblk0p3 ./x
# cp -r /tools ./x/home/root
# sync
# reboot now
```

## Run on the board

After the reboot, stop u-boot autoload and run image from the eMMC
```
env delete bootargs; ext4load mmc 0:1 0x83000000 boot-emmc.uImage; source 0x83000000
```

## Testing

Login to the DomU
```
xl console DomU
```

### Testing GSX
```
cd /home/root/tools/SV_imx623_20240228/
./SurroundViewDemo_wo_camera
```

### Testing Camera
NOTE1: the following steps requires modified `isp_rvas_mono_v4h2`
to use GPIO-10 pin.

NOTE2: logs provided were obtained inside DomD,
because right now camera doesn't work inside DomU.
So, following info will be working after issues with the camera
in DomU are resolved.

```
cd /home/root/tools/
./enable_uio.sh
./isp_rvas_mono_v4h2_hacked -cimx623 -l1 -m0 -3
```
